my name is NAT Keough I am a Middle
Eastern dance artist and I am of
Cambodian descent living in Canada I
grew up in a refugee camp on the border
of Cambodia and Thailand and we didn't
leave the camps to immigrate to Canada
until I was nine years old so mostly of
what I can remember out there was a lot
of fighting a lot of starvation and a
lot of people hurting themselves as well
as each other
I basically tell people we grew up on
salt and rage and just a bag of dirt and
disease and our hangout was the Red
Cross encampment we had never even heard
of such a country as Canada we were told
by all the parents that there is such a
country as Cambodia but we can only see
it through a barbed wire fence and watch
other birds fly across and see oh my god
they're going to Cambodia but the whole
idea of different countries didn't
really make sense to us at a time I
basically invited myself to go along
simply just for reasons of having an
excuse to hang out with them as well as
literally practice speaking English
because I was such a loner I didn't talk
to anybody and after the first few
classes he said hey there's a lot of fun
and I'm laughing more than I'm crying so
there's a good thing and I guess the
poor the performance aspect really
hooked me into it and inspired me to
work harder my parents have a very if
you will cambodian way of supporting my
projects if I were to take classes or
work at something they wouldn't lend me
$2 for bus fare to go take a class but
if I were able to if I were able to
support myself and continue taking
classes or workshops totally behind me
they don't believe in rewarding you
before you have anything completed but
once you complete your idea and complete
your vision and it's opening night for a
show that I'm putting on they would be
one of the first key people to attend
they're always the first to buy a ticket
too much
so that's their form of rewarding me for
my work my journey as a middle-eastern
dancer really started kind of by
accident or I think the path was sort of
opened up for me in a sense I started
doing it just for fun for the first year
at least and then opportunities more and
more opportunities came out for me to
perform and then eventually to teach as
a substitute teacher which really gave
me diarrhea I was so nervous about that
and I did end up teaching quite a few
classes and then eventually through
performing various shows you would ask
or would request more and more for me to
teach and I think it's through teaching
that really made me decide hey I have to
learn this and learn as well it is
unusual for men to be belly dancing in
this part of the world for sure there
are quite a few other male dancers but a
lot of times we're kind of like the
token male dancer in the show or whatnot
and we get lots of attention at the same
time it's a lot easier to be criticized
for work because of the attention we get
there are several reasons for doing that
one was the fact that it's been part of
my family lineage for quite some time
all the men in my admit my father's
family have been have spent some time as
a Buddhist monk in their lifetime
anywhere from two weeks to twenty years
and so I thought if at any point in my
lifetime I could find the opportunity to
do such a thing I'd love to spend some
some time out there as a Buddhist monk
and a considerable amount of time the
other reason for that too is I didn't
want to lose perspective of being a
student I had been teaching dads and
being an artist and everything I've been
doing has been very much focused on ego
or or it instigates your ego in order to
perform well and I figure why not do
something that's very much the opposite
for a while and just so you don't lose
perspective of that I consider myself
Cambodian Canadian part of what I love
most about Canada is the fact that we
celebrate multiculturalism not just as a
label but as a country there's some folk
festivals and there's a lot of different
avenues and different opportunities to
learn more about different cultures and
it's very well celebrated here in Canada
I have a hard time deciding between
Cambodia and Canada which one is my home
partly because I consider both places my
home and I spend a good amount of time
in both countries I think my upbringing
and sort of lessons in life if you will
from childhood if anything it's inspired
me to work harder as well as appreciate
these little things or little rewards I
like to call them and work because you
believe in it rather than you believe in
the outcome
you